Data Warehouse Tutorial: What It is, Definition, Concepts - Tpoint Tech
Tutorials
×
Python
Python Tutorial
Django Tutorial
Numpy Tutorial
Pandas Tutorial
Tkinter Tutorial
Pytorch Tutorial
Flask Tutorial
OpenCV Tutorial
Java
Java Tutorial
Servlet Tutorial
JSP Tutorial
Spring Boot Tutorial
Spring Framework Tutorial
Hibernate Tutorial
JavaFX Tutorial
Java Web Services Tutorial
.Net Framework
.Net Framework Tutorial
C# Tutorial
ASP.Net Tutorial
ADO.Net Tutorial
WPF Tutorial
AI, ML and Data Science
Artificial Intelligence Tutorial
Machine Learning Tutorial
Data Science Tutorial
Deep Learning Tutorial
TensorFlow Tutorial
Artificial Neural Network Tutorial
Matplotlib Tutorial
Python Scipy Tutorial
Cloud Technology
Cloud Computing Tutorial
AWS Tutorial
Microsoft Azure Tutorial
Salesforce Tutorial
GCP Tutorial
B.Tech and MCA
DBMS Tutorial
Data Structures Tutorial
Operating System Tutorial
Computer Network Tutorial
DAA Tutorial
Computer Organization Tutorial
Software Engineering Tutorial
Data Mining Tutorial
Web Technology
HTML Tutorial
CSS Tutorial
JavaScript Tutorial
Jquery Tutorial
Angular 8 Tutorial
React Tutorial
React Native Tutorial
Node.js Tutorial
PHP
PHP Tutorial
MySQL Tutorial
Laravel Tutorial
WordPress Tutorial
CodeIgniter Tutorial
Software Testing
Software Testing Tutorial
Selenium Tutorial
JIRA Tutorial
JMeter Tutorial
Postman Tutorial
TestNG Tutorial
SoapUI Tutorial
Cucumber Tutorial
Interview
×
Technical Interview
Python Interview Questions
Java Interview Questions
.Net Interview Questions
C++ Interview Questions
React Interview Questions
Node.js Interview Questions
Angular Interview Questions
SQL Interview Questions
HR Interview Questions
Java Interview
Spring Boot Interview Questions
Spring Interview Questions
Hibernate Interview Questions
JDBC Interview Questions
Servlet Interview Questions
Maven Interview Questions
Jenkins Interview Questions
Python
Django Interview Questions
Pandas Interview Questions
Express.js Interview Questions
Python Coding Interview Questions
Python Interview Questions for 5 Years
Web Interview
HTML Interview Questions
CSS Interview Questions
JavaScript Interview Questions
Jquery Interview Questions
PHP Interview Questions
Laravel Interview Questions
AJAX Interview Questions
Front-End Developer Interview Questions
jQuery Interview Questions
Database Interview
DBMS Interview Questions
SQL Interview Questions
PL/SQL Interview Questions
Oracle Interview Questions
MySQL Interview Questions
MongoDB Interview Questions
Redis Interview Questions
B.Tech / MCA
DBMS Interview Questions
Operating System Interview Questions
OOPs Interview Questions
DSA Interview Questions
Computer Networks Interview Questions
Important Interview
C Interview Questions
Power BI Interview Questions
C# Interview Questions
Excel Interview Questions
C# Interview Questions
Machine Learning Interview Questions
AWS Interview Questions
Microservices Interview Questions
MySQL Interview Questions
Software Testing Interview
Manual Testing Interview Questions
Selenium Interview Questions
API Testing Interview Questions
ETL Testing Interview Questions
Mobile Testing Interview Questions
Company Interviews
IBM Interview Questions
Adobe Interview Questions
Microsoft Interview Questions
Amazon Interview Questions
TCS Interview Questions
Wipro Interview Questions
Accenture Interview Questions
Compiler
×
Online Compilers
Python Online Compiler
Java Online Compiler
PHP Online Compiler
C Online Compiler
C++ Online Compiler
HTML Online Compiler
JavaScript Online Compiler
TypeScript Online Compiler
R Online Compiler
Swift Online Compiler
Kotlin Online Compiler
Go Online Compiler
C# Online Compiler
Perl Online Compiler
Groovy Online Compiler
HTML, CSS & JavaScript Online Editor
Multiple Choice Questions
Python MCQ
Java MCQ
PHP MCQ
C Programming MCQ
C++ MCQ
HTML mcq
JavaScript MCQ
SQL MCQ
Operating System MCQ
Computer Fundamental MCQ
Computer Network MCQ
DBMS MCQ
Data Structure MCQ
Software Engineering MCQ
Cloud Computing MCQ
Artificial Intelligence MCQ
Python
Java
JavaScript
SQL
C
C++
HTML
CSS
React
Node.js
Spring Boot
C#
PHP
MySQL
MongoDB
AI
ML
DSA
DBMS
OS
Aptitude
Reasoning
Data Warehouse
Data Warehouse Tutorial
Data Warehouse Components
Operational Database Vs Data Warehouse
Data Warehouse Architecture
Three-Tier Data Warehouse Architecture
Operational Data Stores
What is ETL
ETL vs ELT
Types of Data Warehouses
Data Warehouse Modeling
Data Warehouse Design
Data Warehouse Implementation
What is Meta Data
What is Data Mart
Delivery Process
OLAP Technology
What is OLAP
Characteristics of OLAP
OLTP vs OLAP
OLAP Operations
Types of OLAP
ROLAP vs MOLAP vs HOLAP
Dimensional Modeling
What is Dimensional Modeling?
What is Multi-Dimensional Data Model?
What is Data Cube?
Schemas
What is Star Schema?
What is Snowflake Schema?
Star vs Snowflake Schemas
Fact Constellation Schema
Process Architecture
Types of Database Parallelism
Data Warehouse Tools
Misc.
Data Analysis Software for Research
Data Analysis Techniques for Fraud Detection
Data Analytics in Business Intelligence
Data Dictionary Tools
ETL Data Flow Diagram
Modern Data Integration
Kimball Approach to Data Warehousing
next →
Data Warehouse Tutorial: What It is, Definition, Concepts
7 Apr 2025
|
7 min read
Data Warehouse is a relational database management system (RDBMS) construct to meet the requirement of transaction processing systems. It can be loosely described as any centralized data repository which can be queried for business benefits. It is a database that stores information oriented to satisfy decision-making requests. It is a group of decision support technologies, targets to enabling the knowledge worker (executive, manager, and analyst) to make superior and higher decisions. So, Data Warehousing support architectures and tool for business executives to systematically organize, understand and use their information to make strategic decisions.
Data Warehouse environment contains an extraction, transportation, and loading (ETL) solution, an online analytical processing (OLAP) engine, customer analysis tools, and other applications that handle the process of gathering information and delivering it to business users.
What is a Data Warehouse?
A Data Warehouse (DW) is a relational database that is designed for query and analysis rather than transaction processing. It includes historical data derived from transaction data from single and multiple sources.
A Data Warehouse provides integrated, enterprise-wide, historical data and focuses on providing support for decision-makers for data modeling and analysis.
A Data Warehouse is a group of data specific to the entire organization, not only to a particular group of users.
It is not used for daily operations and transaction processing but used for making decisions.
A Data Warehouse can be viewed as a data system with the following attributes:
It is a database designed for investigative tasks, using data from various applications.
It supports a relatively small number of clients with relatively long interactions.
It includes current and historical data to provide a historical perspective of information.
Its usage is read-intensive.
It contains a few large tables.
"Data Warehouse is a subject-oriented, integrated, and time-variant store of information in support of management's decisions."
Characteristics of Data Warehouse
Subject-Oriented
A data warehouse target on the modeling and analysis of data for decision-makers. Therefore, data warehouses typically provide a concise and straightforward view around a particular subject, such as customer, product, or sales, instead of the global organization's ongoing operations. This is done by excluding data that are not useful concerning the subject and including all data needed by the users to understand the subject.
Integrated
A data warehouse integrates various heterogeneous data sources like RDBMS, flat files, and online transaction records. It requires performing data cleaning and integration during data warehousing to ensure consistency in naming conventions, attributes types, etc., among different data sources.
Time-Variant
Historical information is kept in a data warehouse. For example, one can retrieve files from 3 months, 6 months, 12 months, or even previous data from a data warehouse. These variations with a transactions system, where often only the most current file is kept.
Non-Volatile
The data warehouse is a physically separate data storage, which is transformed from the source operational RDBMS. The operational updates of data do not occur in the data warehouse, i.e., update, insert, and delete operations are not performed. It usually requires only two procedures in data accessing: Initial loading of data and access to data. Therefore, the DW does not require transaction processing, recovery, and concurrency capabilities, which allows for substantial speedup of data retrieval. Non-Volatile defines that once entered into the warehouse, and data should not change.
History of Data Warehouse
The idea of data warehousing came to the late 1980's when IBM researchers Barry Devlin and Paul Murphy established the "Business Data Warehouse."
In essence, the data warehousing idea was planned to support an architectural model for the flow of information from the operational system to decisional support environments. The concept attempt to address the various problems associated with the flow, mainly the high costs associated with it.
In the absence of data warehousing architecture, a vast amount of space was required to support multiple decision support environments. In large corporations, it was ordinary for various decision support environments to operate independently.
Goals of Data Warehousing
To help reporting as well as analysis
Maintain the organization's historical information
Be the foundation for decision making.
Data Mart:
A datamart is a subset of a main data warehouse that is segmented to serve business needs, typically with a focus on a particular purpose.
For Example: If we assume an hons college as data warehouse then,
Geography Dept
History Dept.
English Dept.
Bengali Dept.
CSE Dept.
These are all departments.And each department is a data mart of a data warehouse.
There may be distinct data marts for finance, sales, production, or marketing. Departments comprise the software, hardware, programs, and data related to a particular department inside the firm.
Although each of these data marts is unique, they may all be coordinated.
The data marts of several departments differ from one another.
A departmentally planned tiny warehouse is called a data mart.
Difference between Data warehouse and Data mart:
Data Warehouse
Data Mart
It gives enterprise wide view of data.
It gives departmental view of data.
Union of all marts
Subset of data warehouse or single business process
Takes longer time to implement (months to years)
Takes less time to implement (weeks to month)
It size is more than 100 TB.
It size is less than 10 TB.
Slower Response
Faster Response
Meta Data
Your data warehouse's contents are listed in a directory called Meta Data.
Forms of meta data
Three main types may be found in meta data in a data warehouse:
Operational metadata
Extraction and transformation metadata
End user meta data
1. Operational Metadata
Data for the data warehouse originates from several operational systems inside the organization, since operational metadata encompasses all relevant information about the operational data sources.
2. Metadata Extraction and Transformation
It includes details on every data transformation that has ever occurred.
3. End-User Metadata (Index)
The data warehouse's navigational map is the end user information. It makes it possible for the end user to locate data warehouse information.
Special Significance of Metadata
Initially, it serves as the link or glue between each component of the data warehouse.
It then gives the developer information about the structure's content.
In the end, it makes the material recognized and lets the user in.
The answers to the queries on the data in a data ware house are found in the metadata.
Data WareHouse Architecture
Back-End Tools and Utilities
They are employed to feed data from operational databases or other external sources into the data warehouse (bottom layer).
These tools and utilities carry out load and refresh operations to update the data warehouse in addition to data extraction, cleansing, and transformation (e.g., merging comparable data from several sources into unified format).
Bottom Tier
Relational database systems are mostly often found on the warehouse database server.
A data warehouse was created by connecting many datamart.
Additionally, this layer has a metadata repository that houses data on the content of the data warehouse.
Additionally, there are integrators and monitors on this layer, which constantly combine data.
The Middle Tier
An OLAP server is the intermediate tier.
Typically, MOLAP or ROLAP are used to implement it.
ROLAP
is the name of the server that manages relational databases.
MOLAP
is a unique kind of server that is specifically designed for multidimensional data and operations.
The Top Tier
It is a front-end client layer that includes data mining, analysis, and query and reporting capabilities.
Need for Data Warehouse
Data Warehouse is needed for the following reasons:
Business User:
Business users require a data warehouse to view summarized data from the past. Since these people are non-technical, the data may be presented to them in an elementary form.
Store historical data:
Data Warehouse is required to store the time variable data from the past. This input is made to be used for various purposes.
Make strategic decisions:
Some strategies may be depending upon the data in the data warehouse. So, data warehouse contributes to making strategic decisions.
For data consistency and quality:
Bringing the data from different sources at a commonplace, the user can effectively undertake to bring the uniformity and consistency in data.
High response time:
Data warehouse has to be ready for somewhat unexpected loads and types of queries, which demands a significant degree of flexibility and quick response time.
Benefits of Data Warehouse
Understand business trends and make better forecasting decisions.
Data Warehouses are designed to perform well enormous amounts of data.
The structure of data warehouses is more accessible for end-users to navigate, understand, and query.
Queries that would be complex in many normalized databases could be easier to build and maintain in data warehouses.
Data warehousing is an efficient method to manage demand for lots of information from lots of users.
Data warehousing provide the capabilities to analyze a large amount of historical data.
Prerequisites
Before learning about Data Warehouse, you must have the fundamental knowledge of basic database concepts such as schema, ER model, structured query language, etc.
Audience
This tutorial will help computer science students to understand the basic-to-advanced concepts associated with data warehousing.
Problems
We assure that you will not find any problem with this Data Warehouse Tutorial. But if there is any mistake, please post the problem in the contact form.
Some important MCQs:
1. OLAP stands for
Online Analytical Processing
Offline Analytical Process
Online Android Phone
Offline Analogical Process
Show Answer
Workspace
Ans: a
Explanation:
Online analytical processing is the acronym for OLAP.
2. OLTP stands for
Online Transaction Phone
Online Transaction Processing
Offline Typing Process
Online Typing Process
Show Answer
Workspace
Ans: b
Explanation:
Online Transaction Processing is the acronym for OLTP.
3. Meta data is
Data about anything
Different types of DB
Data about data
Raw Data
Show Answer
Workspace
Ans: c
Explanation:
Data about data or information is basically meta data.
4. Types of meta data is basically
2 type
1 type
4 type
3 type
Show Answer
Workspace
Ans: d
Explanation:
There are 3 types of meta data in data warehousing.
5. ROLAP stands for
Relational Online Analytical Processing
Round Online Analytical Processing
Random Online Analytical Processing
Relational Offline Analytical Processing
Show Answer
Workspace
Ans: a
Explanation:
Relational Online Analytical Processing is the acronym for ROLAP.
Next Topic
Data Warehouse Components
next →
Related Posts
Operational Data Stores
What is ? An ODS has been described by Inmon and Imhoff (1996) as a subject-oriented, integrated, volatile, current valued data store, containing only detailed corporate data. A data warehouse is a documenting database that includes associatively recent as well as historical information and may also include...
3 min read
What is Meta Data
? Metadata is data about the data or documentation about the information which is required by the users. In data warehousing, metadata is one of the essential aspects. Metadata includes the following: The location and descriptions of warehouse systems and components. Names, definitions, structures, and content of data-warehouse and end-users...
5 min read
Three-Tier Data Warehouse Architecture
Data Warehouses usually have a three-level (tier) architecture that includes: Bottom Tier (Data Warehouse Server) Middle Tier (OLAP Server) Top Tier (Front end Tools). A bottom-tier that consists of the Data Warehouse server, which is almost always an RDBMS. It may include several specialized data marts and a metadata repository. Data...
2 min read
Delivery Process
Data Warehouse Now we discuss the delivery process of the data warehouse. Main steps used in data warehouse delivery process which are as follows: IT Strategy: DWH project must contain IT strategy for procuring and retaining funding. Business Case Analysis: After the IT strategy has been designed, the...
4 min read
ETL vs ELT
Difference between ETL and ELT ETL (Extract, Transform, and Load) Extract, Transform and Load is the technique of extracting the record from sources (which is present outside or on-premises, etc.) to a staging area, then transforming or reformatting with business manipulation performed on it in order to fit...
4 min read
Data Warehouse Components
Components or Building Blocks of Data Warehouse Architecture is the proper arrangement of the elements. We build a data warehouse with software and hardware components. To suit the requirements of our organizations, we arrange these building we may want to boost up another part with extra tools...
5 min read
Data Warehouse Design
A data warehouse is a single data repository where a record from multiple data sources is integrated for online business analytical processing (OLAP). This implies a data warehouse needs to meet the requirements from all the business stages within the entire organization. Thus, data warehouse design...
3 min read
What is Data Mart
? A Data Mart is a subset of a directorial information store, generally oriented to a specific purpose or primary data subject which may be distributed to provide business needs. Data Marts are analytical record stores designed to focus on particular business functions for a specific community...
4 min read
Data Warehouse Architecture
Introduction: We will know about but before that, we must know about Data Warehouse. A Data warehouse is a complementary Database that is specifically designed for queries and survey. A data warehouse, a heterogeneous collection of data from different sources, doesn't focus on transaction processing. IBM...
8 min read
Data Warehouse Implementation
There are various implementation in data warehouses which are as follows 1. Requirements analysis and capacity planning: The first process in data warehousing involves defining enterprise needs, defining architectures, carrying out capacity planning, and selecting the hardware and software tools. This step will contain be consulting senior...
3 min read
Subscribe to Tpoint Tech
We request you to subscribe our newsletter for upcoming updates.
Subscribe
Learn Important Tutorial
Python
Java
Javascript
HTML
Database
PHP
C++
React
B.Tech / MCA
DBMS
Data Structures
DAA
Operating System
Computer Network
Compiler Design
Computer Organization
Discrete Mathematics
Ethical Hacking
Computer Graphics
Web Technology
Software Engineering
Cyber Security
Automata
C Programming
C++
Java
.Net
Python
Programs
Control System
Data Warehouse
Preparation
Aptitude
Reasoning
Verbal Ability
Interview Questions
Company Questions
We provides tutorials and interview questions of all technology like java tutorial, android, java frameworks
Contact info
G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3, Noida, UP, 201301, India
hr@tpointtech.com
+91-9599086977
Follow us
Tutorials
Java
Data Structures
C Programming
C++ Tutorial
C# Tutorial
PHP Tutorial
HTML Tutorial
JavaScript Tutorial
jQuery Tutorial
Spring Tutorial
Interview Questions
Microsoft
Amazon
Adobe
Intuit
Accenture
Cognizant
Capgemini
Wipro
Tcs
Infosys
Online Compiler
C
R
C++
Php
Java
Html
Swift
Python
JavaScript
TypeScript
Latest Post
|
Tutorials List
|
Privacy Policy
© Copyright 2011 - 2025 TpointTech.com. All Rights Reserved.