Data Mining Tutorial - Tpoint Tech
Tutorials
×
Python
Python Tutorial
Django Tutorial
Numpy Tutorial
Pandas Tutorial
Tkinter Tutorial
Pytorch Tutorial
Flask Tutorial
OpenCV Tutorial
Java
Java Tutorial
Servlet Tutorial
JSP Tutorial
Spring Boot Tutorial
Spring Framework Tutorial
Hibernate Tutorial
JavaFX Tutorial
Java Web Services Tutorial
.Net Framework
.Net Framework Tutorial
C# Tutorial
ASP.Net Tutorial
ADO.Net Tutorial
WPF Tutorial
AI, ML and Data Science
Artificial Intelligence Tutorial
Machine Learning Tutorial
Data Science Tutorial
Deep Learning Tutorial
TensorFlow Tutorial
Artificial Neural Network Tutorial
Matplotlib Tutorial
Python Scipy Tutorial
Cloud Technology
Cloud Computing Tutorial
AWS Tutorial
Microsoft Azure Tutorial
Salesforce Tutorial
GCP Tutorial
B.Tech and MCA
DBMS Tutorial
Data Structures Tutorial
Operating System Tutorial
Computer Network Tutorial
DAA Tutorial
Computer Organization Tutorial
Software Engineering Tutorial
Data Mining Tutorial
Web Technology
HTML Tutorial
CSS Tutorial
JavaScript Tutorial
Jquery Tutorial
Angular 8 Tutorial
React Tutorial
React Native Tutorial
Node.js Tutorial
PHP
PHP Tutorial
MySQL Tutorial
Laravel Tutorial
WordPress Tutorial
CodeIgniter Tutorial
Software Testing
Software Testing Tutorial
Selenium Tutorial
JIRA Tutorial
JMeter Tutorial
Postman Tutorial
TestNG Tutorial
SoapUI Tutorial
Cucumber Tutorial
Interview
×
Technical Interview
Python Interview Questions
Java Interview Questions
.Net Interview Questions
C++ Interview Questions
React Interview Questions
Node.js Interview Questions
Angular Interview Questions
SQL Interview Questions
HR Interview Questions
Java Interview
Spring Boot Interview Questions
Spring Interview Questions
Hibernate Interview Questions
JDBC Interview Questions
Servlet Interview Questions
Maven Interview Questions
Jenkins Interview Questions
Python
Django Interview Questions
Pandas Interview Questions
Express.js Interview Questions
Python Coding Interview Questions
Python Interview Questions for 5 Years
Web Interview
HTML Interview Questions
CSS Interview Questions
JavaScript Interview Questions
Jquery Interview Questions
PHP Interview Questions
Laravel Interview Questions
AJAX Interview Questions
Front-End Developer Interview Questions
jQuery Interview Questions
Database Interview
DBMS Interview Questions
SQL Interview Questions
PL/SQL Interview Questions
Oracle Interview Questions
MySQL Interview Questions
MongoDB Interview Questions
Redis Interview Questions
B.Tech / MCA
DBMS Interview Questions
Operating System Interview Questions
OOPs Interview Questions
DSA Interview Questions
Computer Networks Interview Questions
Important Interview
C Interview Questions
Power BI Interview Questions
C# Interview Questions
Excel Interview Questions
C# Interview Questions
Machine Learning Interview Questions
AWS Interview Questions
Microservices Interview Questions
MySQL Interview Questions
Software Testing Interview
Manual Testing Interview Questions
Selenium Interview Questions
API Testing Interview Questions
ETL Testing Interview Questions
Mobile Testing Interview Questions
Company Interviews
IBM Interview Questions
Adobe Interview Questions
Microsoft Interview Questions
Amazon Interview Questions
TCS Interview Questions
Wipro Interview Questions
Accenture Interview Questions
Compiler
×
Online Compilers
Python Online Compiler
Java Online Compiler
PHP Online Compiler
C Online Compiler
C++ Online Compiler
HTML Online Compiler
JavaScript Online Compiler
TypeScript Online Compiler
R Online Compiler
Swift Online Compiler
Kotlin Online Compiler
Go Online Compiler
C# Online Compiler
Perl Online Compiler
Groovy Online Compiler
HTML, CSS & JavaScript Online Editor
Multiple Choice Questions
Python MCQ
Java MCQ
PHP MCQ
C Programming MCQ
C++ MCQ
HTML mcq
JavaScript MCQ
SQL MCQ
Operating System MCQ
Computer Fundamental MCQ
Computer Network MCQ
DBMS MCQ
Data Structure MCQ
Software Engineering MCQ
Cloud Computing MCQ
Artificial Intelligence MCQ
Python
Java
JavaScript
SQL
C
C++
HTML
CSS
React
Node.js
Spring Boot
C#
PHP
MySQL
MongoDB
AI
ML
DSA
DBMS
OS
Aptitude
Reasoning
Data Mining
Data Mining Tutorial
Data Mining Techniques
Implementation Process
Data Mining Architecture
Data Mining KDD Process
Data Mining History
Data Mining Tools
Data Mining vs Machine Learning
Facebook Data Mining
Social Media Data Mining Methods
Data Mining Cluster Analysis
Text Data Mining
Bagging vs Boosting
Data Mining vs Data Warehousing
Social Media Data Mining
Data Mining Bayesian Classification
Data Mining World Wide Web
Different types of Clustering Algorithm
Bitcoin Data Mining
Orange Data Mining
Data Mining vs Big Data
Decision Tree Induction
Educational Data Mining
Data Mining in Healthcare
Apriori Algorithm
Data Integration in Data Mining
Data mining vs Text mining
Discretization in data mining
Redundancy and Correlation in Data Mining
Classification of Data Mining Systems
Data Mining Models
Data mining vs Data Science
Data Mining vs Statistics
Data Mining vs Web Mining
Data Mining vs Data Analysis
Business Intelligence vs Data Mining
Data Mining vs Data Visualization
Data Mining vs Data Analytics
Types of Data Mining
Data Profiling vs Data Mining
Predictive Analytics vs Data Mining
Data Mining vs OLAP
Descriptive vs Predictive Data Mining
Spatial vs Temporal Data Mining
classification vs clustering
Hierarchical clustering in data mining
Density-based clustering in data mining
Aggregation in data mining
Regression in data mining
What is Outlier in data mining
Data Cleaning in Data Mining
Data Processing in Data Mining
Classification and Predication in Data Mining
Data Mining Task Primitives
Web Content vs Web Structure vs Web Usage Mining
What is Binning in Data Mining
KDD vs Data Mining
What is Noise in Data Mining
BIRCH in Data Mining
Stemming in Data Mining
Feature Transformation in Data Mining
Visual and Audio Data Mining
Class Comparison Methods in Data Mining
Data Selection in Data Mining
Tasks and Functionalities of Data Mining
Ubiquitous and Invisible Data Mining
Entity Identification Problem in Data Mining
Numerosity Reduction in Data Mining
Market Basket Analysis in Data Mining
What is Multimedia Data Mining
Correlation Analysis in Data Mining
Data Mining Services
Trends in Data Mining
Data Harvesting vs Data Mining
Data Mining vs Artificial Intelligence
Data Mining vs Data Exploration
Data Mining vs Process Mining
Web Scraping vs Data Mining
Data Wrangling
What is Boosting in Data Mining
What is Forecasting in Data Mining
What is CRISP in Data Mining
FP Growth Algorithm in Data Mining
Weka Data Mining
Association Rule Mining in Data Mining
Characteristics of Data Mining
Classification By Backpropagation In Data Minning
Data Mining Application
Challenges of Data Mining
Data Mining Meaning
Data Mining Operator
Data Mining Query Language
Data Preprocessing Techniques in Data Mining
Data Stream Mining
Grid-Based Method in Data Mining
Categories of Function Involved in Data Mining
Interestingness of Patterns in Data Mining
Strategic Value of Data Mining
Data Mining for Business Intelligence
Data Mining Projects
Evaluation of Clustering in Data Mining
Major Issues in Data Mining
Partition Algorithm in Data Mining
Partitioning Methods in Data Mining
Rule-Based Classification in Data Mining
Types of Attributes in Data Mining
Use of Data Mining
What is an Association in Data Mining
What is the Goal of Data Mining
Data Mining Algorithm
Data Mining Concepts and Techniques
Data Mining Examples
Data Mining Steps
Normalization in Data Mining
Preprocessing in Data Mining
Association Analysis in Data Mining
Attribute Selection Measures in Data Mining
Support and Confidence in Data Mining
Tree Pruning in Data Mining
Classification Algorithms in Data Mining
Data Generalization in Data Mining
Importance of Data Mining
Data Quality in Data Mining
Mining Frequent Patterns in Data Mining
Data Warehouse and OLAP Technology for Data Mining
Need for Data Mining
Pattern Evaluation Methods in Data Mining
Logarithms and Exponents in complexity analysis
Time Series Clustering
What is the C4.5 algorithm and how does it work
Expanding Contractions in Text Mining
Cosine Similarity in Data Mining
Lazy Learning in Data Mining
Neural Network in Data Mining
Building a Text Normalizer
Shallow parsing
Data Pipeline Orchestration
Big data vs. small data
Myths of Data Mining
Data Reduction in Data Mining
MCQ
Data Mining MCQ
next →
Data Mining Tutorial
12 Feb 2025
|
12 min read
The data mining tutorial provides basic and advanced concepts of data mining. Our data mining tutorial is designed for learners and experts.
Data mining is one of the most useful techniques that help entrepreneurs, researchers, and individuals to extract valuable information from huge sets of data. Data mining is also called
Knowledge Discovery in Database (KDD)
. The knowledge discovery process includes Data cleaning, Data integration, Data selection, Data transformation, Data mining, Pattern evaluation, and Knowledge presentation.
Our Data mining tutorial includes all topics of Data mining such as applications, Data mining vs Machine learning, Data mining tools, Social Media Data mining, Data mining techniques, Clustering in data mining, Challenges in Data mining, etc.
Introduction
The main reason to extract valuable information from datasets is to convert it into an understandable structure for further use. Companies often use Data Mining software to know the behaviour of their customers. This is a very useful technique and it has a huge range of applications across health care, research-oriented work, telecommunications, bioinformatics, marketing, business uses. Also Data Mining can be useful for lie detection or fraud detection. Data mining involves - extracting insights from data, decision making in critical condition, understanding customers psychology, innovation, personal development and execution. Although Data Mining has a great contribution in our daily life, this raises the risk about ethical or privacy concerns as Data Mining involves personal data. So before using Data Mining we need to ensure that this should be conducted ethically. Thus, we can keep our private or sensitive data secure.
What is Data Mining?
The process of extracting information to identify patterns, trends, and useful data that would allow the business to take the data-driven decision from huge sets of data is called Data Mining.
In other words, we can say that Data Mining is the process of investigating hidden patterns of information to various perspectives for categorization into useful data, which is collected and assembled in particular areas such as data warehouses, efficient analysis, data mining algorithm, helping decision making and other data requirement to eventually cost-cutting and generating revenue.
Data mining is the act of automatically searching for large stores of information to find trends and patterns that go beyond simple analysis procedures. Data mining utilizes complex mathematical algorithms for data segments and evaluates the probability of future events. Data Mining is also called Knowledge Discovery of Data (KDD).
Data Mining is a process used by organizations to extract specific data from huge databases to solve business problems. It primarily turns raw data into useful information.
Data Mining is similar to Data Science carried out by a person, in a specific situation, on a particular data set, with an objective. This process includes various types of services such as text mining, web mining, audio and video mining, pictorial data mining, and social media mining. It is done through software that is simple or highly specific. By outsourcing data mining, all the work can be done faster with low operation costs. Specialized firms can also use new technologies to collect data that is impossible to locate manually. There are tonnes of information available on various platforms, but very little knowledge is accessible. The biggest challenge is to analyze the data to extract important information that can be used to solve a problem or for company development. There are many powerful instruments and techniques available to mine data and find better insight from it.
Types of Data Mining
Data mining can be performed on the following types of data:
Relational Database:
A relational database is a collection of multiple data sets formally organized by tables, records, and columns from which data can be accessed in various ways without having to recognize the database tables. Tables convey and share information, which facilitates data searchability, reporting, and organization.
Data warehouses:
A Data Warehouse is the technology that collects the data from various sources within the organization to provide meaningful business insights. The huge amount of data comes from multiple places such as Marketing and Finance. The extracted data is utilized for analytical purposes and helps in decision- making for a business organization. The data warehouse is designed for the analysis of data rather than transaction processing.
Data Repositories:
The Data Repository generally refers to a destination for data storage. However, many IT professionals utilize the term more clearly to refer to a specific kind of setup within an IT structure. For example, a group of databases, where an organization has kept various kinds of information.
Object-Relational Database:
A combination of an object-oriented database model and relational database model is called an object-relational model. It supports Classes, Objects, Inheritance, etc.
One of the primary objectives of the Object-relational data model is to close the gap between the Relational database and the object-oriented model practices frequently utilized in many programming languages, for example, C++, Java, C#, and so on.
Transactional Database:
A transactional database refers to a database management system (DBMS) that has the potential to undo a database transaction if it is not performed appropriately. Even though this was a unique capability a very long while back, today, most of the relational database systems support transactional database activities.
Data Mining Process:
Data mining could be performed in a step-by-step process. The steps to be executed are-
1. Study Problem:
First understand the main objective of the company or project.
The existing problems need to be identified.
Understand and address the limitations of the project.
2. Collect Data:
Find what type of data is required to fix a particular issue.
Then collect it from various authentic sources. This may include databases, data warehouses, and external sources.
3. Data Preparation:
First clean the data which handles data errors, and missing data.
Prepare data in a specific format.
This step includes data transformation and normalization.
a. Exploratory Data Analysis:
Exploratory data analysis also known as EDA, involves data analysis to know its structure, distribution, and relationship among variables.
b. Model Selection and Training:
Choose an appropriate data mining technique and algorithm first according to the existing problem.
Therefore, create the required model, and train the model to perform the work accordingly.
c. Model Evaluation:
Validate the model with a business-oriented aim.
Evaluation of the model is necessary if a change or adjustment of data is needed.
d. Deployment:
This is the final process of data mining. This step is the implementation of data mining in generating business intelligence.
Data Mining Tools:
Data mining tools are the system that provides us with deeper visibility into our data and the phenomena represented by the data. There are lots of data mining tools. But here we will study about five most common and important data mining tools. These are mentioned below -
SAS DATA MINING
ORANGE DATA MINING
RATTLE
DATA MELT DATA MINING
RAPID MINER
Advantages of Data Mining
The Data Mining technique enables organizations to obtain knowledge-based data.
Data mining enables organizations to make lucrative modifications in operation and production.
Compared with other statistical data applications, data mining is a cost-efficient.
Data Mining helps the decision-making process of an organization.
It Facilitates the automated discovery of hidden patterns as well as the prediction of trends and behaviors.
It can be induced in the new system as well as the existing platforms.
It is a quick process that makes it easy for new users to analyze enormous amounts of data in a short time.
Disadvantages of Data Mining
There is a probability that the organizations may sell useful data of customers to other organizations for money. As per the report, American Express has sold credit card purchases of their customers to other organizations.
Many data mining analytics software is difficult to operate and needs advance training to work on.
Different data mining instruments operate in distinct ways due to the different algorithms used in their design. Therefore, the selection of the right data mining tools is a very challenging task.
The data mining techniques are not precise, so that it may lead to severe consequences in certain conditions.
Data Mining Applications
Data Mining is primarily used by organizations with intense consumer demands- Retail, Communication, Financial, marketing company, determine price, consumer preferences, product positioning, and impact on sales, customer satisfaction, and corporate profits. Data mining enables a retailer to use point-of-sale records of customer purchases to develop products and promotions that help the organization to attract the customer.
These are the following areas where data mining is widely used:
Data Mining in Healthcare:
Data mining in healthcare has excellent potential to improve the health system. It uses data and analytics for better insights and to identify best practices that will enhance health care services and reduce costs. Analysts use data mining approaches such as Machine learning, Multi-dimensional database, Data visualization, Soft computing, and statistics. Data Mining can be used to forecast patients in each category. The procedures ensure that the patients get intensive care at the right place and at the right time. Data mining also enables healthcare insurers to recognize fraud and abuse.
Data Mining in Market Basket Analysis:
Market basket analysis is a modeling method based on a hypothesis. If you buy a specific group of products, then you are more likely to buy another group of products. This technique may enable the retailer to understand the purchase behavior of a buyer. This data may assist the retailer in understanding the requirements of the buyer and altering the store's layout accordingly. Using a different analytical comparison of results between various stores, between customers in different demographic groups can be done.
Data mining in Education:
Education data mining is a newly emerging field, concerned with developing techniques that explore knowledge from the data generated from educational Environments. EDM objectives are recognized as affirming student's future learning behavior, studying the impact of educational support, and promoting learning science. An organization can use data mining to make precise decisions and also to predict the results of the student. With the results, the institution can concentrate on what to teach and how to teach.
Data Mining in Manufacturing Engineering:
Knowledge is the best asset possessed by a manufacturing company. Data mining tools can be beneficial to find patterns in a complex manufacturing process. Data mining can be used in system-level designing to obtain the relationships between product architecture, product portfolio, and data needs of the customers. It can also be used to forecast the product development period, cost, and expectations among the other tasks.
Data Mining in CRM (Customer Relationship Management):
Customer Relationship Management (CRM) is all about obtaining and holding Customers, also enhancing customer loyalty and implementing customer-oriented strategies. To get a decent relationship with the customer, a business organization needs to collect data and analyze the data. With data mining technologies, the collected data can be used for analytics.
Data Mining in Fraud detection:
Billions of dollars are lost to the action of frauds. Traditional methods of fraud detection are a little bit time consuming and sophisticated. Data mining provides meaningful patterns and turning data into information. An ideal fraud detection system should protect the data of all the users. Supervised methods consist of a collection of sample records, and these records are classified as fraudulent or non-fraudulent. A model is constructed using this data, and the technique is made to identify whether the document is fraudulent or not.
Data Mining in Lie Detection:
Apprehending a criminal is not a big deal, but bringing out the truth from him is a very challenging task. Law enforcement may use data mining techniques to investigate offenses, monitor suspected terrorist communications, etc. This technique includes text mining also, and it seeks meaningful patterns in data, which is usually unstructured text. The information collected from the previous investigations is compared, and a model for lie detection is constructed.
Data Mining Financial Banking:
The Digitalization of the banking system is supposed to generate an enormous amount of data with every new transaction. The data mining technique can help bankers by solving business-related problems in banking and finance by identifying trends, casualties, and correlations in business information and market costs that are not instantly evident to managers or executives because the data volume is too large or are produced too rapidly on the screen by experts. The manager may find these data for better targeting, acquiring, retaining, segmenting, and maintain a profitable customer.
Challenges of Implementation in Data mining
Although data mining is very powerful, it faces many challenges during its execution. Various challenges could be related to performance, data, methods, and techniques, etc. The process of data mining becomes effective when the challenges or problems are correctly recognized and adequately resolved.
Incomplete and noisy data:
The process of extracting useful data from large volumes of data is data mining. The data in the real-world is heterogeneous, incomplete, and noisy. Data in huge quantities will usually be inaccurate or unreliable. These problems may occur due to data measuring instrument or because of human errors. Suppose a retail chain collects phone numbers of customers who spend more than $ 500, and the accounting employees put the information into their system. The person may make a digit mistake when entering the phone number, which results in incorrect data. Even some customers may not be willing to disclose their phone numbers, which results in incomplete data. The data could get changed due to human or system error. All these consequences (noisy and incomplete data)makes data mining challenging.
Data Distribution:
Real-worlds data is usually stored on various platforms in a distributed computing environment. It might be in a database, individual systems, or even on the internet. Practically, It is a quite tough task to make all the data to a centralized data repository mainly due to organizational and technical concerns. For example, various regional offices may have their servers to store their data. It is not feasible to store, all the data from all the offices on a central server. Therefore, data mining requires the development of tools and algorithms that allow the mining of distributed data.
Complex Data:
Real-world data is heterogeneous, and it could be multimedia data, including audio and video, images, complex data, spatial data, time series, and so on. Managing these various types of data and extracting useful information is a tough task. Most of the time, new technologies, new tools, and methodologies would have to be refined to obtain specific information.
Performance:
The data mining system's performance relies primarily on the efficiency of algorithms and techniques used. If the designed algorithm and techniques are not up to the mark, then the efficiency of the data mining process will be affected adversely.
Data Privacy and Security:
Data mining usually leads to serious issues in terms of data security, governance, and privacy. For example, if a retailer analyzes the details of the purchased items, then it reveals data about buying habits and preferences of the customers without their permission.
Data Visualization:
In data mining, data visualization is a very important process because it is the primary method that shows the output to the user in a presentable way. The extracted data should convey the exact meaning of what it intends to express. But many times, representing the information to the end-user in a precise and easy way is difficult. The input data and the output information being complicated, very efficient, and successful data visualization processes need to be implemented to make it successful.
There are many more challenges in data mining in addition to the problems above-mentioned. More problems are disclosed as the actual data mining process begins, and the success of data mining relies on getting rid of all these difficulties.
Prerequisites
Before learning the concepts of Data Mining, you should have a basic understanding of Statistics, Database Knowledge, and Basic programming language.
Audience
Our Data Mining Tutorial is prepared for all beginners or computer science graduates to help them learn the basics to advanced techniques related to data mining.
Problems
We assure you that you will not find any difficulty while learning our Data Mining tutorial. But if there is any mistake in this tutorial, kindly post the problem or error in the contact form so that we can improve it.
Some important MCQs about Data Mining:
1. Who coined the term "KDD" first and in which year?
John McCarthy,1998
Gregory Piatetsky Shapiro,1989
Arthur Samuel,1967
Dennis Ritchie,1970
Show Answer
Workspace
Ans: B)
Explanation:
In 1989, Gregory Piatetsky Shapiro coined the term "Knowledge Discovery in database".
2. Which is not a data mining tool?
Rattle
Orange data mining
Rapid Miner
DSA
Show Answer
Workspace
Ans: D)
Explanation:
Except DSA all other tools are used in data mining. But DSA is a fundamental part of computer science that teaches us how to think and solve complex problems systematically.
3. Which open-source software is used in the data mining process
KNIME
GATE
MOA
All of the above
Show Answer
Workspace
Ans: D)
Explanation:
KNIME, GATE, MOA - is the open-source software to be used in data mining.
4. Data Mining can be used in -
Market Business Analysis
Fraud detection or Lie detection
Financial banking
all of the above
Show Answer
Workspace
Ans: D)
Explanation:
Data Mining has a huge contribution and can be used in various domains. All of the above problems need Data Mining.
5. What does "KDD" stand for?
Knowledge Discovery in Database
Knowledge data house
knowledge distinguished data
none of the above.
Show Answer
Workspace
Ans: A)
Explanation:
Knowledge Discovery in Database is also known as KDD.
Next Topic
Data Mining Techniques
next →
Related Posts
What is the Goal of Data Mining
? Introduction In the time of data over-burden, the significance of data has ended up being certain. Organizations, analysts, and people are continually immersed in immense data measures. Inside this expanse of data lies priceless insights ready to be found. This is where data mining becomes possibly the...
6 min read
Data Mining Task Primitives
A data mining task can be specified in the form of a data mining query, which is input to the data mining system. A data mining query is defined in terms of data mining task primitives. These primitives allow the user to interactively communicate with the...
5 min read
Class Comparison Methods in Data Mining
In many applications, users may not be interested in having a single class or concept described or characterized but rather would prefer to mine a description comparing or distinguishing one class (or concept) from other comparable classes (or concepts). Class discrimination or comparison (hereafter referred to...
3 min read
Association Analysis in Data Mining
Data mining is the method that is used to take out the insights from the collection of data. With the help of the Internet, you can now collect large amounts of data. The concept of data mining is to turn the raw data that you have...
8 min read
Tree Pruning in Data Mining
Pruning is the data compression method that is related to decision trees. It is used to eliminate certain parts from the decision tree to diminish the size of the tree. In this article, we will learn about tree pruning in data mining, but first, let us know...
6 min read
Myths of Data Mining
Data mining, the contemporary manner of coming across styles and insights from big datasets, has revolutionized industries from healthcare to finance. However, however its considerable adoption, numerous myths and misconceptions about data mining persist. These myths can avert organizations from surely using its ability. Let's debunk...
15 min read
Correlation Analysis in Data Mining
Correlation analysis is a statistical method used to measure the strength of the linear relationship between two variables and compute their association. Correlation analysis calculates the level of change in one variable due to the change in the other. A high correlation points to a strong...
7 min read
Data Mining Models
Data mining uses raw data to extract information and present it uniquely. The data mining process is usually found in the most diverse range of applications, including business intelligence studies, political model forecasting, web ranking forecasting, weather pattern model forecasting, etc. In business operation intelligence studies,...
4 min read
Numerosity Reduction in Data Mining
The data reduction process reduces data size and makes it suitable and feasible for analysis. In the reduction process, the integrity of the data must be preserved, and data volume is reduced. Many techniques can be used for data reduction, and two primary methods of Data...
5 min read
What is an Association in Data Mining
? What is an Association? In data mining, "association" refers to identifying interesting and significant connections or patterns among vast amounts of data. It focuses on identifying relationships or correlations between various elements or variables within a dataset. This method is frequently applied in many industries, such as...
6 min read
Subscribe to Tpoint Tech
We request you to subscribe our newsletter for upcoming updates.
Subscribe
Learn Important Tutorial
Python
Java
Javascript
HTML
Database
PHP
C++
React
B.Tech / MCA
DBMS
Data Structures
DAA
Operating System
Computer Network
Compiler Design
Computer Organization
Discrete Mathematics
Ethical Hacking
Computer Graphics
Web Technology
Software Engineering
Cyber Security
Automata
C Programming
C++
Java
.Net
Python
Programs
Control System
Data Warehouse
Preparation
Aptitude
Reasoning
Verbal Ability
Interview Questions
Company Questions
We provides tutorials and interview questions of all technology like java tutorial, android, java frameworks
Contact info
G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3, Noida, UP, 201301, India
hr@tpointtech.com
+91-9599086977
Follow us
Tutorials
Java
Data Structures
C Programming
C++ Tutorial
C# Tutorial
PHP Tutorial
HTML Tutorial
JavaScript Tutorial
jQuery Tutorial
Spring Tutorial
Interview Questions
Microsoft
Amazon
Adobe
Intuit
Accenture
Cognizant
Capgemini
Wipro
Tcs
Infosys
Online Compiler
C
R
C++
Php
Java
Html
Swift
Python
JavaScript
TypeScript
Latest Post
|
Tutorials List
|
Privacy Policy
© Copyright 2011 - 2025 TpointTech.com. All Rights Reserved.