Microsoft’s most asked interview questions Last Updated : 16 Jun, 2024 Comments Improve Suggest changes Like Article Like Report Like other product-based companies, Microsoft also asks data structures and algorithms as part of their technical interview. Below is a list of questions prepared from different Microsoft interview experiences . Most Asked Questions Check if a Binary Tree is BST or not – Practice here Remove duplicates from a string, do it in-place – Practice here Given a rotated array which is sorted search for an element in it – Practice here Given two linked lists that represent two big numbers (numbers that can not be stored in an int or long long int), write a function that adds the numbers and store the result in a third list. Variations of above question like subtract two numbers or multiply two numbers represented by linked lists. – Practice here Print last 10 lines of a big file or big string . Clone a linked list with next and arbitrary (or random) pointer Connect nodes at same level . Practice here . Least common ancestor of a binary tree or a binary search tree Test case questions like test an ATM. Run length encoding . – Practice here Detect cycle in a linked list . Practice here . Given a sorted array of size n. Each element in array is unique and lies from 1 to n+1. Find the missing element . Write code and test cases for the same. – Practice here Check if a binary tree is balanced . Validate a given IP address Why do you want to join Microsoft? Two of the nodes of a BST are swapped. Correct the BST Draw a circle without floating point arithmetic &t=12s Important Links Microsoft’s most frequently asked interview questions | Set 2 Microsoft Interview Preparation Microsoft Interview Experiences Microsoft Practice Questions Top topics for Interview Preparation Recent Microsoft Interview Experiences Comment More info Advertise with us Next Article Commonly Asked Data Structure Interview Questions Anonymous Improve Article Tags : Experienced Experiences Internship Interview Experiences Interview Questions Interview-Questions Microsoft +3 More Practice Tags : Microsoft